Discussion points

Vertical precision vs vertical accuracy: I believe I should use the word relative before precision. Accuracy would assume a known reference value for track elevations. The relative precision is a value determined by the receiver, precisions are relative with respect to satellite geometry and distance measurement accuracy.
Unable to produce a known track value - the previous survey was 7 years old, and rail company would not permit extended intrusions in a working yard.

WGS84 is derived from GRS80, slightly different semi-major axis and flattening values. WGS84 uses GRS80 parameters plus satellite radar altimetry and the combined solution uses an improved least squares solution combining all sources.

Color mapped elevation vs topo map. A topo map is constructed from a triangulated irregular network between points. The elevations interpolated in a TIN between tracks are meaningless, while the interpolation process changes the important feature, the centerline top-of-rail elevation.
The presentation is similar, perhaps a different phrase? More explanation?

The relative vertical precision of a point can be mapped in the same way as the elevation.


Cycle Slip

A discontinuity of an integer number of cycles in the measured
(integrated) carrier phase resulting from a temporary loss-of-lock in
the carrier tracking loop of a GPS receiver. This corrupts the carrier
phase measurement, causing the unknown Ambiguity value to be different
after the cycle slip compared with its value before the slip. It must be
"repaired" (the unknown number of "missing" cycles determined and the
carrier observation subsequent to the cycle slip all corrected by this
amount) before the phase data is processed in double-differenced
observables for GPS Surveying techniques.

Double-Difference

A data processing procedure by which the pseudo-range or carrier phase
measurements made simultaneously by two GPS receivers are combined so
that, for any measurement epoch, the observations from one receiver to
two satellites are subtracted from each other (in a so-called
"between-satellite single-difference") to remove that receiver's clock
error (or bias). (Similarly for the other receiver's observations to the
same two satellites.) Then the two single-differences are subtracted so
as to eliminate the satellite clock errors as well as to reduce
significantly the effect of unmodelled atmospheric biases and orbit
errors. (The order may be reversed, i.e., take "between-receiver
single-differences" to each satellite in turn, and then difference
between the single-differences.) The resulting set of Double-Differenced
observables (for all independent combinations of
two-satellite-two-receiver combinations) can be processed to solve for
the baseline (linking the two receivers) components and, in the case of
ambiguous carrier phase measurements, the integer ambiguity parameters.
All high precision positioning techniques use some form of
Double-Difference processing: pseudo-range, unambiguous carrier phase
within a "bias-fixed" solution (i.e., after the double-differenced
ambiguity values have been estimated and applied to the original carrier
measurements), or ambiguous carrier phase data within a "bias-free"
solution.

Real Time Kinematic (RTK)

The Relative Positioning procedure whereby carrier phase measurements
(or corrections) are transmitted in real-time from a Reference or Base
Station to the user's roving receiver. Centimetre accuracy is achieved
without the need to record and post-process double-differenced carrier
phase observables.

aposteriori - subsequent to

correlated - said of two or more observations (or derived quantities) which have at least one common source of error.
covariance - A measure of the correlation of errors between two observations or derived quantities. Also referes to an off-diagonal term (that is, not a variance) in a variance-covariance matrix.
covariance matrix - A matrix that defines the variance and covariance of a matrix. The elements of the diagonal are the variance and all elements on either side of the diagonal are the covariance.
covariant values - As used by the Trimble Geomatics software, this is the publication of the propagated (computed) errors in azimuth, distance, and height between pairs of control points resulting from a network adjustment. The term covariant indicates that this computation involves the use of covariant terms the variance-covariance matrix of adjusted control points.
relative errors - Errors and precisions expressed for and between pairs of network adjusted control points.

variance - the square of the standard error.
